[TT-1570/TT-12607]document validating client certificates against rootCA (#5069)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/basic-config-and-security/security/mutual-tls/client-mtls.md

You can do this ONLY through the manual "Create A Key" flow as an Admin Dashboard user.  Through the Portal, you must ONLY paste the contents of the public key, or cert as it is typically called.

> #### Can I use a root Certificate Authority (CA) certificate as a client certificate for mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication?

Reviewer: Is this actually what we want to say here?
Or is it something like:
"Can I register a root Certificate Authority (CA) certificate with Tyk so that Tyk will validate requests with certificates signed by this CA?"

My point being - we've described an action rather than the problem they are trying to solve  (if I've understood this correctly).

Yes, you can upload a root CA certificate as a client certificate for static mTLS authentication. This configuration will allow clients presenting certificates signed by that CA to be validated.

Key points:

> 1. The root CA certificate can be used to be uploaded as a client certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The root CA certificate can be used as a client certificate, simply upload it to Tyk as you would a client certificate.
```

2. Clients with certificates signed by this CA will be accepted.
3. During verification, Tyk gateway traverses the certificate chain for validation.

> 4. This approach does not work with dynamic mTLS.

Reviewer: This should probably be highlighted somehow - perhaps put in a "Note" box, e.g.

{{< note success >}}
**Note**  

Root CA certificates can only be used with static mTLS; this approach does not work with dynamic mTLS.
{{< /note >}}

Reviewer 2: and a ref link

> Note: Ensure that your root CA certificate is properly formatted and trusted within your system's certificate store.

Reviewer: What does "properly formatted" mean? And is this a Tyk certificate store, or something external to Tyk?

Author: I think this could be removed, in fact adding the root certificate as client certificate would make it trusted within Tyk. just that the certificate the client presents needs to be signed by the CA and that CA needs to be trusted by the client as well, but that scenario is implied in the setup

You can do this ONLY through the manual "Create A Key" flow as an Admin Dashboard user.  Through the Portal, you must ONLY paste the contents of the public key, or cert as it is typically called.

#### Can I register a root Certificate Authority (CA) certificate with Tyk so that Tyk will validate requests with certificates signed by this CA?

Yes, you can upload a root CA certificate as a client certificate for static mTLS authentication. This configuration will allow clients presenting certificates signed by that CA to be validated.

Key points:
1. The root CA certificate can be used as a client certificate, simply upload it to Tyk as you would a client certificate.

> 2. Clients with certificates signed by this CA will be accepted.

Reviewer 2: So by uploading a root CA certificate to tyk certificate store, you can use the certificate itself for mtls and also use any other intermediate certificates and intermediate CAs of that root CA for mtls? @jeffy-mathew

3. During verification, Tyk gateway traverses the certificate chain for validation.

{{< note success >}}

> Note

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**
```

> Root CA certificates can only be used with [static mTLS]({{<ref "#static-mtls" >}}); this approach does not work with [dynamic mTLS]({{<ref "#dynamic-client-mtls" >}}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Root CA certificates works only with [static mTLS]({{<ref "#static-mtls" >}} and is not compatible with dynamic  [dynamic mTLS]({{<ref "#dynamic-client-mtls" >}}).
```
